# SofaScore Frontend Academy 2021 - Project

The final academy project will be small SofaScore application. We will utilize some of the SofaScore API routes to create desired screens.

Further in this document:

- [Basic domain introduction](#domain)
- [User stories](#user-stories)
- [UI Design tips](#design-tips)
- [Project technologies](#technologies)
- [Project structure tips](#project-structure)
- [API description](#api)
- [Deployment instructions](#deployment)

## Domain

The main domain of an application will be sports. Since SofaScore routes are used, domain model will mimic the one used at SofaScore.
In this chapter I will first describe basic entities used and their connection.

Basic entities are:

- **Unique Tournament** - Entity describing single competition (can be league, cup, hybrid competition). Examples of an unique tournaments: English Premier League (ID = 17), Uefa Champions League (ID = 7), Roland Garros (ID = 2480), ...

- **Category** - Parent entity for unique tournament(s). Category will be common separator for tournaments. Examples of a category: English, Europe, ATP, Croatia, World, ...

- **Event** - Event is a single match representing entity. Events are usually displayed as event lists from where users can choose a single event and get it's details. Example of an event: Real Madrid - Barcelona, Dinamo - Hajduk, ...

If You find domain confusing feel free to contact me and I will explain it more further.

## User stories

User stories are sentences from the user's perspective. They can be pictured as user's requirements because they don't specify technical side of project. Technical side is left to the developers (this includes design too).

Project application will have at least 2 different screens (it will have more if optional use cases are implemented):

- Category List screen - list of categories
- Event Details screen - details for a single event

User stories are bellow: Stories in the bold are required, stories in the italic are further improvement and developers will decide if any of them should be implemented. You can also add extra stories which you think are fitting.

### Stories:

#### GENERAL UI

- **User should be able to use app on the mobile device**
- **User should be able to use app on the computer screen**
- _User can change application visual theme (dark / light)_

## Technologies

Technologies used in project:

- [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) - main
- CSS - styling
  - **OPTIONAL:** [Sass / SCSS](https://sass-lang.com/) or [Styled-components](https://styled-components.com/)
- [React Router](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/guides/quick-start) - routing

Optional technologies can be used to provide an extra challenge (CSS in JS or CSS preprocessor).

There are constraints regarding UI libraries and frameworks. This project is great opportunity to learn foundational CSS and HTML. Those skills will come handy throughout your career, so usage of Bootstrap, Foundation or any other 3rd party framework or library is forbidden.

## Project Structure

This chapter is informational and opinionated, so as such can be taken as advice.

In my experience structure with `components`, `modules`, `api` and `utils` have proven to be superior as application parts can be separated by usage and specificity.

Folders are placed in `src` folder.

Definitions:

- `components` - Components that are domain agnostic and could exist in any application regardless of its domain (e.g. Button, Checkbox, ...). Those components are basic building blocks of application and more complex modules. Component should not use other components as they should be atomic and basic.
- `modules` - Modules are domain bound units that serve specific purpose (e.g. LoginForm, UserProfile). Modules usually produce side-effects and are responsible for logic and presentation part of an application
- `api` - Api folder contains route definitions and api methods(e.g. `postLogin`, `getUser`, ...). Api also includes utilities specific to API (e.g. `getJson`, `postJson`, `parseResponse`, ...)
- `utils` - Utilities are common helpers, types, test boilerplate (e.g. `numberSort`, ...)

## API

Applications will use SofaScore API, available on the route `https:api.sofascore.com/api/v1`.

All other routes are generated by appending suffix to the base written before.

## Deployment - Optional

When application gets to the final stage, it would be great to think about the deployment possibility. Deploying the application will allow users to access it via Internet connection on some URL.

Suggested free deployment providers are:

- [Vercel](https://vercel.com/)
- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)
- [Heroku](https://heroku.com)

If you need a help with deployment, I can assist you as I have some experience with Vercel and Heroku.
